[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: Would that apply
to every single div on the html?
>> Brian Holt: Yep, so,
if I put another div in here, it would
look pretty weird, but let's do that.
>> Brian Holt: Another div.
>> Speaker 1: If you change it to
div class, would that be different or
would it still apply?
>> Brian Holt: It would still apply
because it's still a div, right?
>> Speaker 1: Well,
what if you wanted to change it?
What if you didn't want those two boxes
to match because you'd have this div and
css, and
then put it in the class of everything.
>> Brian Holt: That's a good question, so
lets do one for this-class.
And say background-color green, okay?
Now we're starting to get into
specificity a little bit.
Oops this-class.
>> Brian Holt: So
kind of interesting what
was going on here right?
So let's first of all,
you've got the HTML right.
Like this one is a div with no class.
This is a div with a class
that says this-class okay?
All right so collapse that.
Let's talk about what's happening here.
This div does apply to this right?
Like this is still a div so
it's getting all that style applied to it.
But then we have one down
here that says this-class and
it doesn't contradict all of those
properties it only contradicts one
of the properties which
is the background color.
So now you have a conflict here
in the background class so
it's needs to ask itself
which one wins right.
Like which one gets applied
when these two are conflicting.
This is this idea of specificity
that I keep referring to.
This-class is more specific,
thus it gets applied.
So, its background color is green, and so
therefore, it would be orange otherwise,
like if I took this property out
it would go back to being orange.
But because it is more
specific it gets applied.
So let's talk a little bit
about specificity now.
Let's go back up here to our html, okay.
I'm gonna have another div underneath it,
oops I don't want that one.
Actually you know what?
Why not?
It's kind of fun.
We'll put the other one right here.
I am also here, okay.
So we now have four divs and
I'm going to give this one ID.
Let's call this one another class.
And then down here, we're gonna have
one that's gonna have another class but
it's also gonna have id="special" or
something like that, okay.
Let's go ahead and change these back out.
So this is gonna have no class.
This is gonna have one class.
Also no class.
Just so it's kind of visually
apparent to which is which.
This is gonna have two classes and
this is going to have
two classes plus id, okay?
So, in no class, one class, also no class,
two classes and two classes and
an id.
>> Brian Holt: Oops, and
let's expand this one out, okay.
So, these ones that have the class on it
are all getting the green background.
Right, the ones with no class
are getting the orange background.
So if I do well, first of all,
if I do another class, right?
Because these ones with two classes
all have another class on them right.
So, if I say background-color: pink.
>> Brian Holt: Nothing changes, right?
Why?
Because this class and
another class are the same specificity.
Because they have one
class on them that match.
So it's gonna pick the one that's lower in
the file, the last one that gets declared.
But let's do this-class.another-class,
make sure that there is no space there.
That's key, that's a very key difference.
And I say background-color: blue.
Two classes, both of them down
here now have a blue background.
I can put this above.
I could, oops, sorry.
I could put this above it, right.
It wouldn't matter what order in the file
it came because now it has two classes
that it's referring to and
therefore is more specific, okay?
Now, just for fun, at the top right
up here, I am going to say #special,
right here and I am going to say
background color: yellow or
something like that, it doesn't matter,
there no huge difference there.
Purple.
>> Brian Holt: It's
background color is now purple, why?
It's because IDs,
no matter how many classes and
I know it's actually not completely true.
But for really all intents and purposes,
no matter how many classes you have
in there, an ID is always more specific
because you're addressing just one.
So ID always trumps classes even if
there's like 30 classes on it, right?
Way more than it's actually possible.
I think actually if you have 256 classes,
it will finally beat an ID,
but that's just totally and completely
impractical and will never happen.
Or if that's happening to you,
you really need to come back and
watch this class again.
Because that's not good.
Okay, so we've kind of demonstrated
to you these principles,
yeah?
>> Speaker 3: So
there's kind of a hierarchy here.
If div gives like a red background.
They all have red borders.
Sorry, not background.
And f only replaces the things that,
it's kind of pulling from both of them.
>> Brian Holt: Yes, it's cascading.
It is a cascading style sheet.
This is exactly why it's called CSS.
A cascading style sheet.
It's cuz the effects cascade down,
kind of like a waterfall, right.
That's the idea here.